What common surfaces will not accept a liquid-applied membrane?
Do not use liquid-applied membranes over hardwood flooring, particleboard, Masonite, plank flooring, treated plywood, vinyl, laminate flooring, floors containing asbestos, gypsum-based floor-patching compounds. Contact SikaTile® Technical Service at 201-933-8800 with any questions.

How long does SikaTile®-100 Moisture Guard take to cure?
Curing and drying are two different things. Drying can take just a few hours but curing can take up to 48 hours or longer. Although curing may take longer than drying, it does not mean that you need to wait for installation over the membrane. The curing will occur even when tile is installed.

How soon can I flood test SikaTile®-100 Moisture Guard?
SikaTile®-100 Moisture Guard can be flood tested four to six hours after the membrane has dried.

My grout is sealed. Why do I need a waterproof membrane?
All grouts are not rated to resist water. Sealers are used to protect the grout from staining. Even if a grout is sealed, a liquid such as water could seep through where the grout meets the tile, causing damage to the substrate. Waterproof membranes are designed to protect the substrate and direct the water to a drain system.

How soon can you tile over the membrane?
Once the liquid-applied membrane has dried to the touch and does not transfer, you may begin installing a polymer-modified mortar.

What do liquid-applied membranes offer that peel-and-stick membranes don’t?
Liquid-applied membranes are monolithic when applied and have no seams. Peel-and-stick (PNS) products are typically 36” wide and need to overlap for wider applications, creating a seam that could potentially leak. Liquid-applied membranes are also great for areas that may not be square or have a radius. PNS products do not conform to applications that have a radius or out-of-square area and will more than likely need to be folded, causing an area for potential leaks.

How thick does a waterproof membrane need to be?
SikaTile® liquid-applied waterproofing and crack-isolation membranes should be applied at a wet-film mil gauge thickness of 30 mil for first coat. This includes embedded reinforcing fabric at change-of-plain areas. After the membrane has dried, a second application needs to be applied without fabric needs to be applied at 30-mil wet thickness for a total of 40-mil thickness after drying/curing.

How do I know if my membrane needs fabric?
Every manufacturer differs with their requirements for fabric embedded into a waterproofing membrane. The manufacturer's Technical Data Sheet and installation directions will describe if a fabric is needed. SikaTile® highly suggests that a reinforcing fabric be used at every change of plane to ensure maximum protection at joints, cracks, protrusions, dissimilar materials, and drains.